README.md, before:

# Media Server Stack

Self-hosted media automation stack built with Docker, configured following [TRaSH Guides](https://trash-guides.info/) best practices.

## Services

| Service | Port | Purpose | Access URL |
|---------|------|---------|------------|
| **Plex** | 32400 | Media streaming server | http://dev.local:32400 |
| **Radarr** | 7878 | Movie library management & automation | http://dev.local:7878 |
| **Prowlarr** | 9696 | Indexer management (centralized) | http://dev.local:9696 |
| **Overseerr** | 5055 | Media request management | http://dev.local:5055 |
| **Deluge** | 8112 | BitTorrent client | http://dev.local:8112 |

## Quick Start

### Initial Setup

1. **Copy environment template**:
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

2. **Edit `.env` and configure**:
   - Set `PLEX_CLAIM_TOKEN` - Get from https://www.plex.tv/claim/ (expires in 4 minutes)
   - Set `DELUGE_WEB_PASSWORD` - Your preferred password
   - Adjust `TZ` if needed (default: America/Chicago)

3. **Start services**:
   ```bash
   docker compose up -d
   ```

### Common Commands

```bash
# View logs
docker compose logs -f [service-name]

# Stop all services
docker compose down

# Restart a specific service
docker compose restart [service-name]

# Rebuild after config changes
docker compose up -d --force-recreate
```

## Directory Structure

```
torrents/
├── configs/           # Persistent configuration for all services
│   ├── deluge/       # Deluge settings, auth, torrents
│   ├── overseerr/    # Overseerr database and settings
│   ├── plex/         # Plex Media Server data
│   ├── prowlarr/     # Prowlarr indexer configs
│   └── radarr/       # Radarr database and settings
├── docker-compose.yml
└── README.md
```

## Volume Mappings

### Download & Media Paths
- **Downloads**: `/Volumes/Samsung_T5/Downloads` → Container: `/downloads`
- **Movies**: `/Volumes/Samsung_T5/Movies` → Container: `/movies` (Radarr) / `/data` (Plex)

### Config Paths
All configs stored in `./configs/[service-name]` and mounted to respective container config paths.

## Authentication & API Keys

### Environment Variables (User-Configured)
Configured in `.env` file:
- **Plex Claim Token**: Set via `PLEX_CLAIM_TOKEN`
- **Deluge Password**: Set via `DELUGE_WEB_PASSWORD` (default username: `admin`)
- **Timezone**: Set via `TZ`

### Auto-Generated API Keys
These are created automatically on first run. Find them in each service's web UI:

**Radarr** (http://dev.local:7878)
- Location: Settings → General → Security → API Key
- Also stored in: `configs/radarr/config.xml`

**Prowlarr** (http://dev.local:9696)
- Location: Settings → General → Security → API Key
- Also stored in: `configs/prowlarr/config.xml`

**Overseerr** (http://dev.local:5055)
- Location: Settings → General → API Key
- Also stored in: `configs/overseerr/settings.json`

**Deluge**
- Web UI Password: Configured via `.env` file
- Additional users: Managed in `configs/deluge/auth`

## Configuration Details

### Radarr (Configured per TRaSH Guides)

**Download Client**: Deluge
- Host: `deluge` (Docker network)
- Port: 8112 (Web UI)
- Category: `radarr-movies`
- Auto-managed by Labels plugin

**Naming Scheme**:
```
{Movie CleanTitle} {(Release Year)} {{Edition Tags}} {[Custom Formats]}{[Quality Full]}{[MediaInfo AudioCodec} {MediaInfo AudioChannels]}{[MediaInfo VideoDynamicRangeType]}{[Mediainfo VideoCodec]}{-Release Group}
```

**Example**: `The Matrix (1999) {Edition-Extended} [Bluray-1080p][DTS 5.1][x264]-SPARKS`

**Quality Profile**: Ultra-HD
- Upgrades: Enabled
- Cutoff: Remux-2160p

### Deluge

**Key Settings**:
- Download location: `/downloads`
- Listen ports: 6881-6891
- Encryption: Full Stream (level 2)
- Active torrents: 8 max (3 downloading, 5 seeding)
- Seed ratio: 2.0
- Seed time: 180 minutes

**Plugins**:
- Label (enabled for Radarr categorization)

### Prowlarr

**Connected Apps**:
- Radarr (Full Sync)
  - All movie categories (2000-2090)
  - Auto-syncs indexers to Radarr

**Indexer Management**:
- Add indexers in Prowlarr → auto-syncs to connected apps
- Configure seed goals per indexer
- Recommended: Set priorities (higher = preferred)

### Overseerr

**Integrations**:
- **Plex**: Connected and configured
- **Radarr**:
  - Profile: Ultra-HD
  - Root folder: `/movies`
  - Minimum availability: Released

**Scheduled Jobs**:
- Plex recently added scan: Every 5 minutes
- Plex full scan: Daily at 3 AM
- Radarr scan: Daily at 4 AM
- Download sync: Every minute

## Workflow

1. **Request** → User requests movie via Overseerr
2. **Search** → Radarr searches configured indexers (via Prowlarr)
3. **Download** → Radarr sends torrent to Deluge with category `radarr-movies`
4. **Monitor** → Radarr monitors download progress
5. **Import** → When complete, Radarr imports to `/movies` with proper naming
6. **Seed** → Deluge continues seeding until ratio/time goals met
7. **Stream** → Plex makes movie available for streaming

## Important Notes

### TRaSH Guides Configuration
This setup follows [TRaSH Guides](https://trash-guides.info/) recommendations:
- ✅ Proper naming scheme (prevents download loops)
- ✅ Separate download/media directories
- ✅ Labels plugin for download client categorization
- ✅ Centralized indexer management via Prowlarr
- ✅ Quality profiles with upgrades enabled
- ✅ Seed goals in indexer settings (not download client)

### Hardlinks
For optimal performance, ensure `/downloads` and `/movies` are on the same filesystem to support hardlinks (instant moves, space-efficient).

### Private Trackers
If using private trackers, disable DHT, LSD, and UPnP in Deluge:
```
configs/deluge/core.conf:
- "dht": false
- "lsd": false
- "upnp": false
```

## Security

### Current Setup
✅ **Implemented**:
- Secrets stored in `.env` file (not in version control)
- `.gitignore` prevents committing sensitive data
- Configs directory excluded from git (contains auto-generated API keys)

⚠️ **Still Needed for Production**:
- No HTTPS configured
- Some services lack authentication
- No VPN for torrent traffic

### Recommendations for Production
1. **Reverse Proxy**: Use Nginx/Traefik with HTTPS and Let's Encrypt
2. **Authentication**: Enable on all services (especially Prowlarr/Radarr)
3. **VPN**: Route Deluge through VPN container for privacy
4. **Network Isolation**: Use Docker networks to limit service access
5. **Regular Updates**: Keep all containers up to date

### Secret Management
- **Never commit** `.env` file to version control
- **Rotate API keys** if they are ever exposed
- **Use strong passwords** for Deluge and other services
- **Backup configs** securely (they contain API keys)

## Adding Indexers

1. Access Prowlarr: http://dev.local:9696
2. Navigate to: **Indexers → Add Indexer**
3. Search for your indexer (public or private)
4. Configure credentials/settings
5. Test connection
6. Save

Indexers will automatically sync to Radarr within seconds.

### Recommended Public Indexers
- 1337x (general purpose)
- YTS (movies, smaller files)

### Seed Ratio Configuration (per TRaSH Guides)
Set in Prowlarr for each indexer:
- Minimum Seeders: 1
- Seed Ratio: 2.0
- Seed Time: 168 hours (7 days)

## Troubleshooting

### Check Service Logs
```bash
docker compose logs -f radarr
docker compose logs -f deluge
docker compose logs -f prowlarr
```

### Restart Services
```bash
docker compose restart radarr
docker compose restart deluge
```

### Test Connectivity
```bash
# From Radarr to Deluge
docker exec radarr nc -zv deluge 8112

# From Prowlarr to Radarr
docker exec prowlarr nc -zv radarr 7878
```

### Clear Download Client Category Issues
If Radarr can't set categories in Deluge:
1. Verify Labels plugin enabled in `configs/deluge/core.conf`
2. Restart Deluge: `docker compose restart deluge`
3. Test connection in Radarr: Settings → Download Clients → Test

## Next Steps

- [ ] Add indexers to Prowlarr
- [ ] Configure custom formats in Radarr (optional)
- [ ] Set up Sonarr for TV shows (optional)
- [ ] Configure notifications (Discord, Email, etc.)
- [ ] Add VPN container for secure torrenting
- [ ] Set up reverse proxy with HTTPS

## Resources

- [TRaSH Guides](https://trash-guides.info/) - Configuration best practices
- [Radarr Wiki](https://wiki.servarr.com/radarr)
- [Prowlarr Wiki](https://wiki.servarr.com/prowlarr)
- [Deluge Documentation](https://dev.deluge-torrent.org/)

Commit message:

Fix volume structure for TRaSH Guides compliance
- Change all service mounts to unified parent directory structure
- Update Plex: /Volumes/Samsung_T5:/data
- Update Radarr: /Volumes/Samsung_T5:/data
- Update Deluge: /Volumes/Samsung_T5:/data
- Update Deluge config to use /data/Downloads
- Update documentation to reflect new paths
- Enable proper hardlink support (no remote path mapping needed)

This follows TRaSH Guides best practices by ensuring all services
see downloads and media as the same filesystem, enabling hardlinks
for instant moves and space-efficient imports.

README.md, after:

# Media Server Stack

Self-hosted media automation stack built with Docker, configured following [TRaSH Guides](https://trash-guides.info/) best practices.

## Services

| Service | Port | Purpose | Access URL |
|---------|------|---------|------------|
| **Plex** | 32400 | Media streaming server | http://dev.local:32400 |
| **Radarr** | 7878 | Movie library management & automation | http://dev.local:7878 |
| **Prowlarr** | 9696 | Indexer management (centralized) | http://dev.local:9696 |
| **Overseerr** | 5055 | Media request management | http://dev.local:5055 |
| **Deluge** | 8112 | BitTorrent client | http://dev.local:8112 |

## Quick Start

### Initial Setup

1. **Copy environment template**:
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

2. **Edit `.env` and configure**:
   - Set `PLEX_CLAIM_TOKEN` - Get from https://www.plex.tv/claim/ (expires in 4 minutes)
   - Set `DELUGE_WEB_PASSWORD` - Your preferred password
   - Adjust `TZ` if needed (default: America/Chicago)

3. **Start services**:
   ```bash
   docker compose up -d
   ```

### Common Commands

```bash
# View logs
docker compose logs -f [service-name]

# Stop all services
docker compose down

# Restart a specific service
docker compose restart [service-name]

# Rebuild after config changes
docker compose up -d --force-recreate
```

## Directory Structure

```
torrents/
├── configs/           # Persistent configuration for all services
│   ├── deluge/       # Deluge settings, auth, torrents
│   ├── overseerr/    # Overseerr database and settings
│   ├── plex/         # Plex Media Server data
│   ├── prowlarr/     # Prowlarr indexer configs
│   └── radarr/       # Radarr database and settings
├── docker-compose.yml
└── README.md
```

## Volume Mappings

### Unified Data Path (TRaSH Guides Compliant)
All services mount the parent directory for hardlink support:
- **Host Path**: `/Volumes/Samsung_T5` → Container: `/data`

This allows:
- **Downloads**: `/data/Downloads` (visible to all services)
- **Movies**: `/data/Movies` (visible to all services)
- **Hardlinks**: Work properly (same filesystem)

### Config Paths
All configs stored in `./configs/[service-name]` and mounted to respective container config paths.

## Authentication & API Keys

### Environment Variables (User-Configured)
Configured in `.env` file:
- **Plex Claim Token**: Set via `PLEX_CLAIM_TOKEN`
- **Deluge Password**: Set via `DELUGE_WEB_PASSWORD` (default username: `admin`)
- **Timezone**: Set via `TZ`

### Auto-Generated API Keys
These are created automatically on first run. Find them in each service's web UI:

**Radarr** (http://dev.local:7878)
- Location: Settings → General → Security → API Key
- Also stored in: `configs/radarr/config.xml`

**Prowlarr** (http://dev.local:9696)
- Location: Settings → General → Security → API Key
- Also stored in: `configs/prowlarr/config.xml`

**Overseerr** (http://dev.local:5055)
- Location: Settings → General → API Key
- Also stored in: `configs/overseerr/settings.json`

**Deluge**
- Web UI Password: Configured via `.env` file
- Additional users: Managed in `configs/deluge/auth`

## Configuration Details

### Radarr (Configured per TRaSH Guides)

**Download Client**: Deluge
- Host: `deluge` (Docker network)
- Port: 8112 (Web UI)
- Download Path: `/data/Downloads`
- Category: `radarr-movies`
- Auto-managed by Labels plugin

**Naming Scheme**:
```
{Movie CleanTitle} {(Release Year)} {{Edition Tags}} {[Custom Formats]}{[Quality Full]}{[MediaInfo AudioCodec} {MediaInfo AudioChannels]}{[MediaInfo VideoDynamicRangeType]}{[Mediainfo VideoCodec]}{-Release Group}
```

**Example**: `The Matrix (1999) {Edition-Extended} [Bluray-1080p][DTS 5.1][x264]-SPARKS`

**Quality Profile**: Ultra-HD
- Upgrades: Enabled
- Cutoff: Remux-2160p

### Deluge

**Key Settings**:
- Download location: `/data/Downloads`
- Listen ports: 6881-6891
- Encryption: Full Stream (level 2)
- Active torrents: 8 max (3 downloading, 5 seeding)
- Seed ratio: 2.0
- Seed time: 180 minutes

**Plugins**:
- Label (enabled for Radarr categorization)

### Prowlarr

**Connected Apps**:
- Radarr (Full Sync)
  - All movie categories (2000-2090)
  - Auto-syncs indexers to Radarr

**Indexer Management**:
- Add indexers in Prowlarr → auto-syncs to connected apps
- Configure seed goals per indexer
- Recommended: Set priorities (higher = preferred)

### Overseerr

**Integrations**:
- **Plex**: Connected and configured
- **Radarr**:
  - Profile: Ultra-HD
  - Root folder: `/data/Movies`
  - Minimum availability: Released

**Scheduled Jobs**:
- Plex recently added scan: Every 5 minutes
- Plex full scan: Daily at 3 AM
- Radarr scan: Daily at 4 AM
- Download sync: Every minute

## Workflow

1. **Request** → User requests movie via Overseerr
2. **Search** → Radarr searches configured indexers (via Prowlarr)
3. **Download** → Radarr sends torrent to Deluge with category `radarr-movies`
4. **Monitor** → Radarr monitors download progress in `/data/Downloads`
5. **Import** → When complete, Radarr hardlinks/moves to `/data/Movies` with proper naming
6. **Seed** → Deluge continues seeding until ratio/time goals met
7. **Stream** → Plex makes movie available for streaming

## Important Notes

### TRaSH Guides Configuration
This setup follows [TRaSH Guides](https://trash-guides.info/) recommendations:
- ✅ Proper naming scheme (prevents download loops)
- ✅ Separate download/media directories
- ✅ Labels plugin for download client categorization
- ✅ Centralized indexer management via Prowlarr
- ✅ Quality profiles with upgrades enabled
- ✅ Seed goals in indexer settings (not download client)

### Hardlinks
All services mount `/Volumes/Samsung_T5` as `/data`, ensuring `/data/Downloads` and `/data/Movies` are on the same filesystem. This enables hardlinks for instant moves and space-efficient operations (file exists in both locations but only uses space once).

### Private Trackers
If using private trackers, disable DHT, LSD, and UPnP in Deluge:
```
configs/deluge/core.conf:
- "dht": false
- "lsd": false
- "upnp": false
```

## Security

### Current Setup
✅ **Implemented**:
- Secrets stored in `.env` file (not in version control)
- `.gitignore` prevents committing sensitive data
- Configs directory excluded from git (contains auto-generated API keys)

⚠️ **Still Needed for Production**:
- No HTTPS configured
- Some services lack authentication
- No VPN for torrent traffic

### Recommendations for Production
1. **Reverse Proxy**: Use Nginx/Traefik with HTTPS and Let's Encrypt
2. **Authentication**: Enable on all services (especially Prowlarr/Radarr)
3. **VPN**: Route Deluge through VPN container for privacy
4. **Network Isolation**: Use Docker networks to limit service access
5. **Regular Updates**: Keep all containers up to date

### Secret Management
- **Never commit** `.env` file to version control
- **Rotate API keys** if they are ever exposed
- **Use strong passwords** for Deluge and other services
- **Backup configs** securely (they contain API keys)

## Adding Indexers

1. Access Prowlarr: http://dev.local:9696
2. Navigate to: **Indexers → Add Indexer**
3. Search for your indexer (public or private)
4. Configure credentials/settings
5. Test connection
6. Save

Indexers will automatically sync to Radarr within seconds.

### Recommended Public Indexers
- 1337x (general purpose)
- YTS (movies, smaller files)

### Seed Ratio Configuration (per TRaSH Guides)
Set in Prowlarr for each indexer:
- Minimum Seeders: 1
- Seed Ratio: 2.0
- Seed Time: 168 hours (7 days)

## Troubleshooting

### Check Service Logs
```bash
docker compose logs -f radarr
docker compose logs -f deluge
docker compose logs -f prowlarr
```

### Restart Services
```bash
docker compose restart radarr
docker compose restart deluge
```

### Test Connectivity
```bash
# From Radarr to Deluge
docker exec radarr nc -zv deluge 8112

# From Prowlarr to Radarr
docker exec prowlarr nc -zv radarr 7878
```

### Clear Download Client Category Issues
If Radarr can't set categories in Deluge:
1. Verify Labels plugin enabled in `configs/deluge/core.conf`
2. Restart Deluge: `docker compose restart deluge`
3. Test connection in Radarr: Settings → Download Clients → Test

## Next Steps

- [ ] Add indexers to Prowlarr
- [ ] Configure custom formats in Radarr (optional)
- [ ] Set up Sonarr for TV shows (optional)
- [ ] Configure notifications (Discord, Email, etc.)
- [ ] Add VPN container for secure torrenting
- [ ] Set up reverse proxy with HTTPS

## Resources

- [TRaSH Guides](https://trash-guides.info/) - Configuration best practices
- [Radarr Wiki](https://wiki.servarr.com/radarr)
- [Prowlarr Wiki](https://wiki.servarr.com/prowlarr)
- [Deluge Documentation](https://dev.deluge-torrent.org/)
